Introduction/Business Problem

My first job was working at a pizza place, spinning dough, laying down
toppings and packing fresh baked pizza into boxes to feed the hungry.
It’s a noble profession, and a repressed dream of mine to own and run
a successful pizza shop. If you’re looking for good pizza in Miami,
not the $5 oily cardboard kind, your options are few and far between.
I must always hope there are similar-minded pizza enthusiasts.

Over half of all restaurants fail in their first year, and poor
location choice is cited as the primary reason. This begs the
question? What is a good location for a pizza place? 

A solid approach to answering this question would involve profiling a
number of popular, long running pizza shops as models, charting up
data points on their area’s location, demographic, and behavioral
data, and fitting a decision tree to understand why and grade
potential locations.

That would involve a lot of data I don’t have, and for the purposes of
this project, i’m limiting myself to what data i can gleam off free
acces to the the foursquare API.

I will be going with my gut on this one. I will set my own criteria,
and build a recommender system to suggest the best neighborhoods. My
gut says:

There should be a lot of people in this neighborhood There should be a
high restaurant to population ratio There should be a relatively low
pizza place to restaurant ratio

My API access limits me to 50 results per query. I will be using these
50 results as a sample for each neighborhood, and basing my ratios off
the samples.

Data

Wikipedia Miami-Dade neighborhoods
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_communities_in_Miami-Dade_County,_Florida
This is a well segmented list of neigbhorhoods in Miami along with
their populations. Each neighbohood links to a page sharing the
population density.

Foursquare API Will provide lists of venues and their respective
categories for each neighborhood. I will use the data to calculate the
criteria ratios of  restaurants to population density pizza
restuarants to restaurants

